
visual odometry returns transformation matrix between frames. IMU sensor returns angular velocity and acceleration in copter coordinate frame. To fuse measurements into one state, we can use loosely coupled and tightly coupled methods. Loosely coupled methods estimate motion from IMU and camera frames independently and then fuse to get output. Tightly coupled methods fuse raw data to get estimation and more accurate because visual info can correct IMU drift and inertial measurements can correct visual features.

VIO algs can be categorized by number of involved in estimation frames. Full smoothers keep whole trajectory for optimization. Sliding window approaches track only N latest frames for estimation of new state. Filters only estimate latest state

Different methods can be used for measurement uncertainty. Extended Kalman Filter(EKF) produce covariance matrix,  Smoothers and information filters use information matrix(covar inv). The number of times in which the measurement model is linearized is also an important criterion. While a standard EKF (in contrast to the iterated EKF) processes a measurement only once, a smoothing approach allows linearizing multiple times. While the terminology is vast, the underlying algorithms are tightly related. For instance, it can be shown that the iterated Extended Kalman filter equations are equivalent to the Gauss-Newton algorithm, commonly used for smoothing (Bell and Cathey 1993).

Filtering 

Efficient because of estimating only last state. Classic approach estimate pose and landmarks in state and filter complexity grows quadratically in the number of landmarks. An alternative is to adopt a structureless approach where landmark positions are marginalized out of the state vector (see, for instance, the Multi-State Constraint Kalman filter (MSCKF) (Mourikis and Roumeliotis 2007)).  Structureless filter waits until all landmark measurements are obtained, so filter cant use all information. Drawbacks are in filter structure. It uses old states for latest state estimation so outliers are locked in filter state. Second, estimation on wrong states adds information to unobservable directions: yaw and global position. To address this problem, the first-estimates jacobian approach (Huang et al 2008) is often adopted to ensures that a state is not updated with different linearization points, which is a source of inconsistency. 

Sliding window 

More accurate than filtering because they relinearize some number of measurements on estimate update and robust to outliers due to rejection after linearization or robust cost functions (Hartley and Zisserman 2003). Similar to filters, can suffer from inconsistency (Hesch et al 2014; Dong-Si and Mourikis 2011; Huang et al 2011). 